------------------
membuf (20000920a)
------------------

Membufs provide a reference-counting garbage-collected memory management
facility.  These can be used for passing a memory block between
contexts/threads without having to be concerned about which thread will have
to release it back to the heap.


--------------------
Library dependencies
--------------------

debug
context
heap
	

-------
Details
-------

Membufs are a variation on heap management.  A membuf provides the same
facilities as a heap block (and indeed are allocated from the heap), but adds
some additional (invisible) information to the allocated block.  The additional
information contains a reference-count of how many places the contents of the
block are referenced from (usually via pointers).  In addition, functions are
provided to increase and decrease the reference count reference count.  When
the reference count reaches zero the membuf is automatically freed back to the
heap manager.

The advantage of membufs is that they allow data to be referenced from several
locations without having to worry about which of the referers will free it's
memory back to the heap when they have finished with the contents.  A good
example is to consider a producer/consumer problem:

The producer creates a membuf, and holds a reference to it.  It then passes the
membuf to a consumer which then also references it (now have a ref-count of 2).
The producer then dereferences the membuf (it no longer needs it) and at some
time the consumer also dereferences the membuf.  Now as we have concurrency
within Liquorice, the consumer may dereference the membuf before or after the
producer so we don't know which one will be the last to use the memory.  The
reference counting system ensures that the last one to reference the membuf
also tidies up after it.

As a general guide, it's pretty much completely safe to do anything with a
membuf that has a reference count of 1.  If it's any greater than 1, however
then any modifications have to be done very carefully to ensure that there
aren't any race conditions.
